Welcome back in the previous lecture we set up our scatterplot and we added a little bit of jitter to
the year column to actually see a nicer flow of that scatterplot.
Now lets enable a user to interact and then grab the data they're hovering over and use that to update
another graph on the dashboard.
Let's get started.
OK.
Here we are back at our text editor.
We've done the imports and we set up our single graph.
Now what we're going to do is put another graph that's going to display the acceleration in order to
do this in a clean manner.
Let's go ahead and take our entire graph object here and stick it into its own HTL div in order to have
a div for our other graph.
That way we can also add styling such as setting the with the 50 percent for each graph.
So they don't overlap with each other.
So I will say T.M. div here and then I'm going to get my list grab everything from this graph.
Cut it out and then paste it into this div.
There we go.
And I'm going to write after this div do another h team l div and this is where our second plot is going
to go.
So let's first start off by zooming back in and adding a little bit more to these divs.
So hopefully that was a nice zoom out so you could see them actually just grabbing everything from the
previous graph and sticking it inside of that list for the div..
So I wanted to add some style after that list bracket of that first div So the styles related to that
div itself.
And we're going to say that style dictionary will set the with 50 percent.
So it only takes up 50 percent of the screen and also for formatting purposes will display to be in
line.
BLOCK All right so that adds a little bit style to make room for the output graph.
Now we're going to do is have a new div here and this is going to contain our acceleration output graph.
So I'll say DCC graph.
And inside of this graph object I'm going to give an ID.
Let's give this one mpg underscore line ID.
So this is going to be some sort of line that displays information about the car in the MPG data such
as its acceleration and then we'll set the figure to be a dictionary and we're going to do here is this
is essentially going to be a scatterplot.
So our data and our layouts are going to be simple scatter plots.
Let's zoom in a little more so we can get an idea of what we're passing in for the data.
Remember that data is going to be a list that takes in your scatterplot call and we're going to do here
is the following I would say X equal to a list of just two points zero to one or zero and one.
And I'm going to then set y equal to the same points.
So this plot just goes from 0 1 and 0 1.
Very simple scatterplot and it's technically not going to be a scatterplot because I'm points set the
mode to be lines.
So I'm going to have a line and I'm going to change its slope based off the acceleration.
Now we're going to see how we do that in just the second from Al let's finish this out by setting up
our LEO.
We'll see.
Go lay out and I'm going to a title here.
This is just going to be acceleration and then I will add in one more parameter margin for the styling
and the stakes in a dictionary where the key can be l r t b.
So that's left right top bottom.
So I'm going to say lowercase L so that the left margin and we'll set it equal to a zero margin on the
left hand side that way the actual acceleration plot doesn't have that much of a margin between it and
the scatterplot.
So it's a little bit closer together.
All right so that's the style we've laid out for this graph.
And then what we're going to do is be changing the pitch or slope of this particular plot that's going
to appear like a line and we're also going to be able to change that thickness depending on the number
of cylinders.
So let's go down here to.
Right above if name is equal to Maine.
This is where we're going to create our function and our callback.
And if you have any questions on maybe some syntax here we can check out the guidebook and it kind of
breaks it down for you as far as the elements we're adding.
And if you check our notes you'll notice that we have kind of four different versions of the script
that show each step being added on.
So all we did here is we took our graph stick in a div and then created another div and create another
graph so for a function we're going to say the following.
Say the F callback underscore graph and we're going to take in the hover data.
So as a user hovers over a scatter point we want to display information about that particular car.
So let's start off by just getting the callback set up the callback takes an output.
Let's check the IDs.
So the output is going to go to this mpg line graph.
And what we want to add is the actual figure dictionary parameter.
So we're going to edit that figure ID and then for the input member that's a list will say input the
ID for that one.
If we come back up here that was mpg scatter.
So let's copy that.
And again you can call these IDs whatever you want as long as you're consistent.
And then we're going to accept the hover data string or property ID from that graph object then we're
passing it into this graph callback.
And the next step we need to do here is actually grab a corresponding index for the vehicle that's being
hovered over.
And the way we can do that is I will create a variable called the index that stands for vehicle index
and we're going to use that along for data frame to actually look up information about the particular
car being hovered over the way we would do this is if you were to grab the hover data dictionary it's
going to have a points key to it and that contains a single list.
Tryna grab that first item from the list which is in itself a dictionary.
And then there's a property in that called points index.
And if you want you can edit this graph to just be in other HTL div and return back children.
So you can actually then see that Jason File but will also show you later on how we can display that
Jason in a marked down.
But for now you can kind of take my word for it that if you look at that Jaisalmer file yourself just
like we did in some earlier lectures especially on that select that data and the click data and hover
data lectures that you get back that Jason File has a dictionary with the key points you grab the first
item in that list and then that's another dictionary with a point index and the index is actually the
vehicle index for our data frame.
From there it actually becomes pretty easy to edit the figure.
So what we can do here is get back a figure dictionary or start setting it up.
This is the dictionary we're going send back to this guy right here.
This dictionary and let's make sure that we actually close off this dictionary.
There we go.
So we have our figured dictionary ready to go.
So we set up our data or data is going to be a list and then we set up our layout
so serves the layout because it's a little simpler.
Zoomin couple more lines give us some more space.
So the left will say go the layout and here we're going.
A title so the title is the name of the car at that index position.
So I'm going to say from my data frame I L O C and that stands for integer location and then you can
actually passen an index number.
And in this case the index will be that number because that's the point index of the point that's being
hovered over that's the index right here.
So that brings back that entire row of information for that car.
But in this case I'm only going that the title for the name of that car.
So off of that data frame that's an entire row.
I just want the name column value so that's how he set the title of that little acceleration plot.
Then we're going to do here is make sure that margin is reset again to what we had it before.
So that's basically this value because remember since we're going to be updating this every time someone
hovers over these actual things like the layout style calls they need to be sent back to otherwise it'll
only work the first time you see it.
So you have this margin of L and zero so left hand side margin has zero.
And we can even set the height here of our plot.
So we'll set height in that layout equal to the value 300.
Let's just set that for now.
Well let's save something else we're going to need to do later on.
Is that the x axis and y axis.
But we'll set that in just a second.
What I want to do now is focus on this data list so the data list that's going to be the scatterplot
that's being passed back to this acceleration graph meaning I will say go that scatter I'll set my x
axis values to just be zero and 1 again.
However my y values are going to change because I actually want to change the slope of the line being
presented based on how much of an acceleration this car has.
So I will say it y is equal to zero.
And we're going to do a little bit of math.
We're going to say 60 divided by DMF I ellos see the underscore index.
Remember this by itself.
I Alosi the index.
That's just the row of that particular model car that's being hovered over.
Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the acceleration value for that car and I'm going to
say 60 divided by that.
The reason for that is because we're not sure we're going to show the true acceleration of this car.
Instead we're going to represent is how many seconds it takes to go from zero to 60.
Essentially Delta velocity or miles per minute which is basically why we have this 60 here since there's
60 Minutes in an hour and we're going from zero to 60 mph in how many seconds.
So that's how this acceleration is going to be represented essentially showing how many seconds is it
can it go from zero to 60.
So the slower the acceleration the flatter the slope.
So now we're essentially resetting our y axis to go from zero to that acceleration value.
So the range is going to be higher for a faster or should I say higher acceleration car than the mode
itself is still going to be lines here.
So karma mode will still set that equal two lines OK.
Let's save this and see what kind of plot this ends up updating.
And then we're going to add a couple of things to this plot.
We still need to adjust the layout specifically the x and y axis and then we also still need to adjust
a couple of things as far as styling is concerned on the lines.
This plot especially so we can make it thicker if it has more cylinders.
So let's see what we have so far.
We still need a lot to adjust but just so we are not staring at this text editor all day.
Looks like I forgot to import output.
So let's check that up here.
Graph object says go let's say from dasht dot dependencies import and put an output.
OK let's say that Trever running this again.
Make sure we have no more errors.
OK good.
So let's go to our dashboard now.
OK so this is what a dashboard looks like.
Now notice we have mpg data and we have acceleration those right now.
They're not on the same line and it's because we haven't set the display parameter in that style dictionary
to be inline block that allows them to be in line with each other.
And also we forgot to set the acceleration with Eielson those.
Notice something's actually not working here.
As I hover over my points I'm not seeing that acceleration plus change.
And the reason for that is probably because I forgot to return the new figure object that I'm updating.
Remember that function actually needs to return what it wants to update.
So let's go back to our text editor.
So there is here I have my finger with its data and its layout being defined by the hover data.
However I forgot to return this new figure object.
So it is come back down here and make sure you get the and then stationery here.
But essentially are going to return this figure dictionary to be inserted to the figure of the MPG line
graph right here.
So we're going to overwrite what's shown here.
Let's save this restart our dashboard and then later on we can come back and edit some stylings.
OK.
Back at the dashboard.
Now as I hover over this you can see the acceleration start to change.
Specifically you can see the y axis bars.
Hopefully it's clear on your screen but you can see the scale of my y axis is actually starting to change.
The line stays the same but the y axis scale is changing.
So I would like to do is actually edit the Y-axis range so that you can see it more clearly in the actual
pitch because right now technically you're just seeing the same pitch line but the access that is being
shown on changes for faster cars.
So let's edit that by changing the Y-axis dictionary specifically the range parameter.
So I'm going to close this going to come back here.
Let's stop our dashboard for now.
And there was a couple of things we want to change.
The first one is let's go ahead and take care of that styling on the acceleration graph.
So the styling that's going to go for this Divx we'll say style is equal to.
And let's set the width to be just let's say 20 percent here.
And we also set the height to be a little shorter.
Let's set the height to be 50 percent.
And finally let's say the splay inline block that way it actually shows up on the same line as this
other graph.
So that takes care of some of the styling issues.
However we still need to take care of that Y-axis not changing and that one is going to be a little
more complicated and it goes inside of this layout call.
So we set our margin and we set our height defaults what we need to do is really anywhere here will
need to reset our x axis and I'm going to not have it visible because technically those units aren't
really going to match up.
So I'll say visible is false by default visible is true that we're going to set it to false and then
y axis.
I will also say it's too invisible so say visible is false but what I'm going to do is change the range
of the y axis that way instead of seeing those grid lines change as you hover over points you actually
see the line itself change and for this we're going say go from zero to whatever the let's say 60 divided
by DSF acceleration value what that minimum acceleration value is there we go.
So now let's save this and let's try running this figure again.
See Python basic but PI and let me make sure that I'm getting errors margin looks like I'm forgetting
a comma right after this.
OK let's save that.
Run it again OK.
Let's go to our dashboard.
OK here's our dashboard now.
You'll notice that the x axis is actually still visible because technically it won't get visible is
false until I hover over something.
So then once I hover over something I should see all those layout changes take effect.
And if you want you could take some of those layout changes and set them on that initial default where
you don't get such a drastic change on your first hover over.
But now we're actually seeing that line shift.
So you notice the slope of the line is changing as I hover over particular vehicles.
Now what I want to do and will do this in part three of the lecture will change the thickness of the
line to be related to the actual number of cylinders.
And then we'll also add a little bit of markdown techs down here so we can see the well a little more
information about the number cylinders and the acceleration.
OK.
So right now we are successfully able to create the changing slope based of the acceleration of the
car.
And you can check the guidebook for a full formula as far as what's going on here with this 60 divided
by acceleration value.
It's nicely laid out in the guide book.
It's a little hard for me to type it out here for you but we haven't in the guidebook as far as how
we're actually calculating the acceleration value.
So this 60 divided by acceleration helps make a little more sense.
OK we'll see you through the lecture where we edit the thickness of that line and then we also add that
mark down information.
See there.